# Robotic-path-planning-using-genetic-algorithm-

Automation in the current period includes voice assistants, Google Maps, and surgical training in virtual reality. Path planning is the cornerstone of the  robotics business since it can be applied to a wide range of tasks, such as navigation, automation for other vehicles, and robot or car automation without a human interface. Path planning is carried out in this literature using genetic algorithm. Genetic lgorithms are adaptable, simple to use, and capable of solving complicated optimisation issues that are challenging to resolve with conventional methods. The Dijkstra algorithm is among the finest techniques for path planning with low temporal complexity, which is crucial for robots, however it fails when there are moving impediments. The local route planning-based NSPMR algorithm locates the mobile robot’s (MR) nearest shortest path while minimising energy consumption and maximising runtime. If the path has more barriers or non-static items, the algorithm has problems. These situations are prevented by the predetermined amount of obstacles and the advised application of the genetic algorithm, which finds the shortest path based on "selection" and "mutation" processes. The pathfinding process doesn't take very long because the new path is chosen smoothly. Due to this, the time consumption of path planning is limited. A better evolutionary strategy is proposed to avoid smoothing out lengthy distances when barriers are close to the starting node or if the obstacles disturb the smoothness in order to prevent this from happening. The two methods of "shortest paths" and "position update" have been used to improve path planning in order to construct an efficient path without involving any human touch. 
